posts/nextjs-mdx-blog-tutorial.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Building a Modern Blog with Next.js and MDX'
description: 'Learn how to create a powerful blog using Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS with syntax highlighting and SEO optimization'
date: '2025-01-27'
---

Creating a modern blog has never been easier with the powerful combination of **Next.js**, **MDX**, and **Tailwind CSS**. In this tutorial, we'll build a feature-rich blog with syntax highlighting, SEO optimization, and a beautiful design.

## Why This Tech Stack?

The combination of Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS provides:

- **Next.js**: Server-side rendering and static site generation for optimal performance
- **MDX**: Write interactive content with embedded React components
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework for rapid styling

## Setting Up the Project

First, let's create a new Next.js project:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest my-blog
cd my-blog
```

Install the necessary dependencies:

```bash
npm install next-mdx-remote gray-matter react-syntax-highlighter @types/react-syntax-highlighter
```

## Configuring MDX

Update your `next.config.mjs` to support MDX:

```javascript
import createMDX from '@next/mdx';

const withMDX = createMDX({
  extension: /\.mdx?$/,
  options: {
    remarkPlugins: [],
    rehypePlugins: [],
  },
});

const nextConfig = {
  output: 'export',
  images: { unoptimized: true },
  pageExtensions: ['js', 'jsx', 'ts', 'tsx', 'mdx'],
};

export default withMDX(nextConfig);
```

## Creating a Blog Post Component

Here's how to create a dynamic blog post page:

```tsx
import { getPostBySlug, getAllPosts } from '@/lib/posts';
import { MDXRemote } from 'next-mdx-remote/rsc';

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = getAllPosts();
  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }));
}

export default async function PostPage({
  params,
}: {
  params: Promise<{ slug: string }>;
}) {
  const { slug } = await params;
  const { content, data } = getPostBySlug(slug);

  return (
    <article className="prose mx-auto p-6">
      <h1>{data.title}</h1>
      <MDXRemote source={content} />
    </article>
  );
}
```

## Adding Syntax Highlighting

Create a `CodeBlock` component using `react-syntax-highlighter` for beautiful code snippets that support dark mode:

```tsx
'use client';

import { Prism as SyntaxHighlighter } from 'react-syntax-highlighter';
import {
  oneDark,
  oneLight,
} from 'react-syntax-highlighter/dist/esm/styles/prism';
import { useTheme } from 'next-themes';

interface CodeBlockProps {
  children?: string | string[];
  language?: string;
}

export default function CodeBlock({ children, language }: CodeBlockProps) {
  const { theme } = useTheme();
  const isDark = theme === 'dark';

  return (
    <SyntaxHighlighter
      language={language}
      style={isDark ? oneDark : oneLight}
      showLineNumbers
    >
      {String(children || '')}
    </SyntaxHighlighter>
  );
}
```

## SEO Optimization

Add metadata to your pages for better SEO:

```tsx
import { Metadata } from 'next';

export const metadata: Metadata = {
  title: 'My Blog - Modern Web Development',
  description: 'A modern blog built with Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS',
  keywords: ['Next.js', 'MDX', 'Tailwind CSS', 'Blog', 'Web Development'],
  authors: [{ name: 'Your Name' }],
  openGraph: {
    title: 'My Blog - Modern Web Development',
    description: 'A modern blog built with Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS',
    type: 'website',
    locale: 'en_US',
  },
  twitter: {
    card: 'summary_large_image',
    title: 'My Blog - Modern Web Development',
    description: 'A modern blog built with Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS',
  },
};
```

## Styling with Tailwind CSS

Use Tailwind's utility classes for beautiful, responsive design:

```tsx
export default function BlogPost({ post }) {
  return (
    <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto px-4 py-8">
      <article className="prose prose-lg max-w-none">
        <h1 className="text-4xl font-bold text-gray-900 dark:text-white mb-4">
          {post.title}
        </h1>
        <div className="text-gray-600 dark:text-gray-400 mb-8">
          {post.description}
        </div>
        <div className="prose prose-lg max-w-none">
          <MDXRemote source={post.content} />
        </div>
      </article>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Conclusion

This setup provides a solid foundation for a modern blog with:

- ✅ Syntax highlighting for code blocks
- ✅ SEO optimization with metadata
- ✅ Responsive design with Tailwind CSS
- ✅ Static site generation for performance
- ✅ MDX support for interactive content

Happy coding! 🚀

Commit message:

Add blog date, update post

posts/nextjs-mdx-blog-tutorial.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Building a Modern, Interactive Blog with Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS'
description: 'Creating a powerful blog using Next.js, MDX and Tailwind CSS with syntax highlighting and SEO optimization'
date: '2026-01-01'
---

To kick off the New Year 2026, I decided to get back into blogging and upgrade my old GitHub Pages blog using modern technologies. In this post, I’ll walk you through how I built a feature-rich, interactive blog with **Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS**, complete with syntax highlighting, SEO optimization, and a beautiful design. I’m excited to start writing new posts about my learning and sharing insights along the way.

## Why This Tech Stack?

The combination of Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS provides:

- **Next.js**: Server-side rendering and static site generation for optimal performance
- **MDX**: Write interactive content with embedded React components
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework for rapid styling

## Setting Up the Project

First, let's create a new Next.js project:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest my-blog
cd my-blog
```

Install the necessary dependencies:

```bash
npm install next-mdx-remote gray-matter react-syntax-highlighter @types/react-syntax-highlighter
```

## Configuring MDX

Update your **next.config.mjs** to support MDX:

```javascript
import createMDX from '@next/mdx';

const withMDX = createMDX({
  extension: /\.mdx?$/,
  options: {
    remarkPlugins: [],
    rehypePlugins: [],
  },
});

const nextConfig = {
  output: 'export',
  images: { unoptimized: true },
  pageExtensions: ['js', 'jsx', 'ts', 'tsx', 'mdx'],
};

export default withMDX(nextConfig);
```

## Creating a Blog Post Component

Here's how to create a dynamic blog post page:

```tsx
import { getPostBySlug, getAllPosts } from '@/lib/posts';
import { MDXRemote } from 'next-mdx-remote/rsc';

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = getAllPosts();
  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }));
}

export default async function PostPage({
  params,
}: {
  params: Promise<{ slug: string }>;
}) {
  const { slug } = await params;
  const { content, data } = getPostBySlug(slug);

  return (
    <article className="prose mx-auto p-6">
      <h1>{data.title}</h1>
      <MDXRemote source={content} />
    </article>
  );
}
```

## Adding Syntax Highlighting

Create a **CodeBlock** component using **react-syntax-highlighter** for beautiful code snippets that support dark mode:

```tsx
'use client';

import { Prism as SyntaxHighlighter } from 'react-syntax-highlighter';
import {
  oneDark,
  oneLight,
} from 'react-syntax-highlighter/dist/esm/styles/prism';
import { useTheme } from 'next-themes';

interface CodeBlockProps {
  children?: string | string[];
  language?: string;
}

export default function CodeBlock({ children, language }: CodeBlockProps) {
  const { theme } = useTheme();
  const isDark = theme === 'dark';

  return (
    <SyntaxHighlighter
      language={language}
      style={isDark ? oneDark : oneLight}
      showLineNumbers
    >
      {String(children || '')}
    </SyntaxHighlighter>
  );
}
```

## SEO Optimization

Add metadata to your pages for better SEO:

```tsx
import { Metadata } from 'next';

export const metadata: Metadata = {
  title: 'My Blog - Modern Web Development',
  description: 'A modern blog built with Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS',
  keywords: ['Next.js', 'MDX', 'Tailwind CSS', 'Blog', 'Web Development'],
  authors: [{ name: 'Your Name' }],
  openGraph: {
    title: 'My Blog - Modern Web Development',
    description: 'A modern blog built with Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS',
    type: 'website',
    locale: 'en_US',
  },
  twitter: {
    card: 'summary_large_image',
    title: 'My Blog - Modern Web Development',
    description: 'A modern blog built with Next.js, MDX, and Tailwind CSS',
  },
};
```

## Styling with Tailwind CSS

Use Tailwind's utility classes for beautiful, responsive design:

```tsx
export default function BlogPost({ post }) {
  return (
    <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto px-4 py-8">
      <article className="prose prose-lg max-w-none">
        <h1 className="text-4xl font-bold text-gray-900 dark:text-white mb-4">
          {post.title}
        </h1>
        <div className="text-gray-600 dark:text-gray-400 mb-8">
          {post.description}
        </div>
        <div className="prose prose-lg max-w-none">
          <MDXRemote source={post.content} />
        </div>
      </article>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Conclusion

This setup provides a solid foundation for a modern blog with:

- ✅ Syntax highlighting for code blocks
- ✅ SEO optimization with metadata
- ✅ Responsive design with Tailwind CSS
- ✅ Static site generation for performance
- ✅ MDX support for interactive content

Happy coding! 🚀
